Bhainsrorgarh Fort, also known as Bhainsror Fort, is an old fort in the
Indian state of Rajasthan. Rawatbhata, 7 kilometres from Bhainsror, is
the nearest city.

History-

Bhainsrorgarh is an impregnable fort with a surrounding region that has
been inhabited from at least the second century BC.The fort was
initially constructed by a Baniya merchant named Bhainsa Sah and a
Charan trader named Rora Charan to safeguard their caravans from
bandits. The name of the fort comes from the combination of Bhansa and
Rora. It is situated between two rivers, the Chambal and the Bamani. It
had passed through various hands before becoming the residence of a
premier noble of Mewar, the enormous territory surrounding Udaipur and
Princely State of the Sisodia line. It has five tanks, shrines to Devi
Bhim Chauri, Shiva, and Ganesh, and a rented mansion.

Nearest form of Transportation-

Via Plane-Airport Kota Airport 54.5km from Kota Airport, approx. 92min
by car.

Via train- Kota Railway Station,60.75km from Kota Railway Station,
approx. 106min by car.

Bhangarh Fort Timings-Bhangarh fort timings: all days of the week 6:00 AM to 6:00 PM.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Myths-

The first tale of Bhangarh Fort is that it was cursed by Guru Balu Nath,
who said that if the shadow of any building reached his home, the entire
city would be destroyed. It is said that once a king constructed his
palace higher than the saint's residence, and after a few days, the
entire palace fell.

The second bhangarh fort tale goes that a wizard named Singhia, who was
enchanted by Princess Ratnavati's beauty, attempted to possess her by
substituting her oil with a magical elixir. But when the princess found
out, she threw the oil at a boulder, crushing the wizard. Singhia cursed
Bhangarh, and the following year there was a war that murdered everyone
who resided there, including Ratnavati. The fort is still reported to be
waiting for its princess to return. There are numerous bhangarh fort
happenings that have helped to make this location renowned. So visiting
Bhangarh Fort at night is just for the brave.

Road Connectivity- Nearest village is Dhausa if you are coming by train
or bus.
