Chitrakot Waterfall is a stunning waterfall in the Bastar district of
Chhattisgarh, India. It is located on the river Indravati. This
waterfall reaches a height of 90 feet. This waterfall's unique feature
is that while the water is reddish during rainy days, it appears
completely white during summer moonlight nights.

The waterfall is located at a distance of 40 km from Jagdalpur and 273
km from Raipur . Chitrakote Falls is the largest and most water-logged
waterfall in Chhattisgarh. It is the most important waterfall in the
Bastar division. It has also earned a reputation as a popular picnic
spot due to its proximity to Jagdalpur. This waterfall is also known as
the "Niagara of India" because of its resemblance to horse feet. The
Chitrakoot waterfall is breathtaking, and visitors adore it. A massive
water body pours from this water fall in the centre of the strong trees
and Vindhya hills, attracting tourists' attention.

The famed Chitrakot falls, often known as the "Niagra of India," may be
seen at any time of year, but witnessing it during the rainy season is a
more thrilling experience. The roar of massive water during the peak of
the rain causes both thrills and shudders. During the rainy season, the
splendour of these springs is breathtaking. It is acceptable for guests
to come here between July and October. The picturesque waterfalls are
surrounded by dense forest, which adds to their natural beauty. The
river has been fully illuminated, illuminating this location. With the
tourist light, the magnificence of the waterfall's cascading water may
be viewed. On different occasions, this waterfall produces at least
three and up to seven streams.

How to Reach

Via Air- Bastar has its own airport, which is run by the state
government as part of the UDAN programme. Currently, the AIRODISHA
operates flights between Jagdalpur and Raipur, as well as Jagdalpur and
Vishakapatnam. The nearest airport is at Raipur, which is about 300
kilometres from Bastar. Many airline companies offer regular flights
from here to all of the major cities. From Raipur Airport to Jagdalpur,
pre-paid cabs are readily available.

Via Train- Railways connect Jagdalpur, the district headquarters of
Bastar district, to Vishakapatnam and Raipur. East Coast Railway
operates the Jagdalpur railway station. From NMDC Bacheli to
Vishapakatnam, this railway line is the main source of iron ore
transportation. The following trains run from Jagdalpur:
Vishakapatnam-Kirandul Passenger (58501), Durg-Jagdalpur Express
(18211), Hawrah-Koraput Express (18005), Hirakhand Express (18448), and
Vishakapatnam-Jagdalpur(Night Express).\
.\
Weather-

Chitrakoot is best visited between July and March, when the weather is
pleasant and not too hot.
