Introduction

Wake up to the aroma of soothing coffee and take in the picturesque
grandeur of this misty land of hills and streams. Coorg, often known as
the Scotland of India, lives true to its reputation with an enticing
blend of history, elegance, adventure, and delectable cuisine. This
well-known coffee-producing hill station, located along the western
ghats, is well-known for its jaw-dropping beautiful scenery and wealth.

This misty landscape has a rich culture and a unique indigenous clan -
Kodavas who specialise in martial arts and are well-known for their
hospitality. From admiring the beauty of this magnificent destination to
a tough hike or a deep insight into the culture at the Madikeri Fort to
the thrilling experience at Abbey falls. Coorg will make you oscillate
to the extremes in everything, from heart-melting handmade truffles to
sweet heart-melting handmade truffles.

With so many activities available in the house, this is a great place
for everyone, whether you are a foodie, an explorer, an adventurer, or a
seeker of tranquillity. Not to mention the well-known festivals of Keil
Poldu (worship of weapons), Cauvery Shankaramana (return of the river
goddess), and Huttari (harvest).

With stunning mountains, a cascade of tumbling streams, and a feast for
the eyes of flora and wildlife, this place is a must-see for everyone
looking for a break from their boring 9-5 stressful existence. Coorg is
well-known for being the favoured place for hiking and white water
rafting, making it an ideal location for thrill-seekers.

In the winter afternoons, drive around the misty roads around the hills
to quench your appetite for adventure. Though the touch of excitement is
enough to pique your interest, remember to take precautions while on
your adventurous journey to Coorg.

How to Reach

-   How to reach Coorg by Air: Mangaluru International Airport is the
    closest airport to Coorg located at a distance of 135 kilometers.
    However, its international flights operate only in the Middle East.
    The Kempegowda International Airport (Bengaluru) is the most well
    connected international airport, which is located at a distance of
    260 kilometers from Coorg.

-   How to reach Coorg by Rail : The railway station located at Mysore,
    at a distance of approximately 95 kilometers is the nearest
    to Coorg. However, the distance between Mysore and Coorg is a little
    over 100 kms which you can cover with a 2 ½ to 3 hour drive.

-   There are frequent buses by the Karnataka State Road Transport
    Corporation (KSRTC) that ply in frequent intervals that you can
    avail of to reach your destination.

Best time to visit-

-   Coorg is one of those places in India where the climate remains
    pleasant all through the year. Each season has its own charm and
    will give you a special reason to visit. Be it summer, winter or
    monsoon, Coorg always welcomes its visitors and enthrals them with
    its spectacular beauty.

-   1\) March to May (Summer) – Coorg is an ideal escape for many during the
    scorching summer heat of the cities as the temperature here hovers
    between 22 ? C to 35? C. There is a pleasant wind blowing that helps you
    lay back relax and enjoy the clear sight of the hills. You can plan all
    your activities to the various places of interest like the Golden
    Temple, the beautiful Madikeri Fort flaunting its beautiful 17th-century
    architecture, the vast floral and faunal diversity that Nagarhole
    National Park promises, the Abbey Falls or the majestic Raja’s Seat
    without having to worry about the rain playing spoilsport.

-   2\) June to Sep (Monsoon) - Coorg experiences heavy rainfall, which might
    make it unsuitable for trekking and upset your schedule. However, many
    people consider monsoon to be the best time to visit Coorg as the lush
    green of the hills come to life and a dreamy mist envelope you. Most
    importantly, the place that is synonymous with a visit in Coorg, the
    coffee plantations are also a sight you should not miss in the monsoons
    as the rolling hills create an unforgettable experience.

-   This is also the best time to go for river rafting, canoeing and
    other water sports. The many waterfalls that the region boasts of
    also come alive during monsoon and are a spectacle to behold.

-   3\) December to February (Winter) - Winter is the season that completely
    justifies the idea of Coorg as a true hill station. January is the
    coldest in Coorg and does justice to its tag of being a hill station.
    January to February is a great time to travel around and visit the many
    places of interest, especially the coffee plantations. You are likely to
    get a whiff of the famous and aromatic Robusta and Arabica varieties of
    coffee in February and in fact, buy some of that fresh harvest.

Famous places in Coorg-

1\. Abbey Falls: Cascading from an elevation of around 70 feet above sea
level and nestled amidst lush spice and coffee plantations, the
magnificent Abbey Falls is one of the most beautiful and popular
waterfalls in Coorg. This fall is fed by the Kaveri river, which
cascades through rocky faces, with the flow being at its peak just after
the monsoon season.

Location: Abbey Falls Rd, Hebbettageri, Karnataka 571201.

Entry Fee: INR 15 per head.

Timings: From 9 AM to 5 PM, on all days.

2\. Honnamana Kere Lake: Lying near Somwarpet, Honnamana Kere Lake is
considered to be the biggest natural lake of Kodagu district. With a
temple of Goddess Honnamana located on its serene banks, Honnamana Kere
Lake is known popularly for its spiritual and mythological significance.

The lake attracts many devotees during the famous Gowri festival when a
pooja is held here. Honnamana Kere Lake also propels a myriad of
adventure enthusiasts, who love to enjoy fishing and boating here.

Location: Sulimalthe Village, Coorg, Karnataka.

Timings: From 6 AM to 6 PM, on all days.

3\. Raja's Seat: Also known as Gaddige Raja’s Tomb, Raja's Seat was
developed by Chikkavirarajendra back in 1820. In the bygone times, the
Raja’s Seat was a favourite place among the rulers of Kodagu district,
who frequently visited this spot with their queens to enjoy the
sunsetSurrounded by majestic hills and lush valleys, this vantage point
remains as a sunset-watching spot at the present day. The place is also
encircled by a breathtaking garden, which houses musical fountains and
colourful seasonal flowers.

Location: Madikeri, Coorg, Karnataka.

Entry Fee: INR 5 per head.

Timings: 5:30 AM to 7:30 PM on Weekdays; 6:45 PM – 7:20 PM on Weekends.
Musical Fountain is held at 7:00 PM.

4\. Madikeri Fort: Built back in the 17th century by king Muddu Raja,
Madikeri Fort was captured by a number of rulers in the later periods,
due to which the monument went through numerous changes.

At the present day, the Madikeri Fort boasts two life-size elephant
statues at its entrance and houses a tortoise sculpture, a church, the
Deputy Commissioner’s office, and a museum exhibiting rare collections,
on its premises. It also has a clock tower, which was added to the
structure in 1933 under the Britishers.

Location: Madikeri Fort, Stuart Hill, Madikeri, Karnataka 571201.

Timings: From 9 AM to 6.30 PM, on all days except on Monday.

5\. Kopatty Hills: Kopatty Hills offers a short, moderate trek, which is
known popularly for its varied landscapes. This off-beat trek takes the
hikers through vast expanses of breathtaking coffee plantations, thick
forests, rolling grasslands, silent meadows, verdant valleys, and
meandering streams.

The trek is packed with a plethora of camping sites, where trekkers can
pitch their tents and enjoy the night in the arms of mother nature. Some
of the top activities that can be enjoyed at Kopatty Hills include
sunset watching, jungle walks, village walks, plantation visits, and
photography.

Location: Kopatty, Coorg, Karnataka.

6\. Honey Valley: Also known as Nilakandi Falls, Honey Valley happens to
be a 15 feet high, picturesque waterfall, located in the thick tropical
forests, with its origin being somewhere in the mighty Tadiyandemol
range. This waterfall is part of a privately-owned 56-acre resort and
offers an amazing trekking opportunity. There is a 3 kilometres long
trek, which takes trekkers to a serene stream, which meanders down from
the waterfall.

Location: Coorg, Karnataka.

7\. Tadiandamol Peak: Perched at an altitude of around 1,748 meters above
sea level, Tadiandamol Peak happens to be the highest peak of Coorg
district and the second highest peak of Karnataka state.

Offering excellent trekking opportunities to beginners, the trek to
Tadiandamol Peak takes you through breathtaking dense forests. One of
the important landmarks of this trek is the Big Rock, which is a
magnificent rock at the foothills of the hill, which serves as an ideal
camping destination.

Location: Kakkabe, Coorg, Karnataka.

Timings: From 6 AM to 6 PM, on all days.

8\. Namdroling Monastery: Also known as Thegchog Namdrol Shedrub Dargye
Ling, the Namdroling Nyingmapa Monastery was constructed by Drubwang
Padma Norbu Rinpoche back in 1963.

Considered to be one of the world’s largest education hubs of Tibetan
Buddhism, this monastery has a religious college and a junior high
school. The monastery is also home to more than five thousand lamas of
the sangha community. There is also a fully functional hospital on the
premises of the Namdroling Monastery.

Location: Arlikumari, Bylakuppe, Karnataka 571104.

Timings: From 9 AM to 6 PM, on all days.

9\. Mandalpatti: Set overlooking the Pushpagiri forests and flanked by
abundant greenery, Mandalpatti happens to be one of the best vantage
points in Coorg.

Nestled at an elevation of around 1800 meters above sea level, this
place is often visited by nature lovers and amateur trekkers, who love
to hike through the easy trails to soak in the breathtaking views of the
underlying greenery. Taking the trekkers through breathtaking coffee
estates, Mandalpatti Viewpoint is also known to offer mesmerizing sunset
and sunrise views.

Location: Madikeri, Coorg, Karnataka.

Timings: From 6 AM to 6 PM, on all days.

10\. Somwarpet: Lying in the north-eastern region of Coorg town,
Somwarpet is known popularly for its premium quality coffee and spice
crops. This beautiful region also houses several important tourist
attractions of Coorg, including Beelur Golf club, Malemalleshwara Betta,
and Mallalli Falls. Somwarpet also serves the most authentic and
delicious Coorgi delicacies, including Pandi (Pork) Curry, Koli Barthad,
Bamboo Shoot Curry, Kadambuttu, and Akki Rotti.

Location: Somwarpet Taluk, Coorg, Karnataka.

11\. Pushpagiri Wildlife Sanctuary: Lying in Somwarpet, Pushpagiri
Wildlife Sanctuary shelters a plethora of rare and endangered bird
species, such as Gray-breasted Laughing Thrush, Malabar Grey Hornbill,
and Nilgiri Flycatcher.

Named after the Pushpagiri peak, this sanctuary is also home to a
beautiful forest reserve, Kadamakal. While you are here, you can spot
many unique animals, including Asian Elephant, Indian Giant Squirrel,
and Spotted Deer.

Location: Subramanya, Road, Kumarahalli, Karnataka 571236.

Entry Fee: INR 10 per head.

Timings: From 7 AM to 6 PM, on all days.

Best time to visit(Recommended)

The temperature in Coorg ranges between 15-20 degrees Celsius throughout
the year with its pristine valleys and mesmerizing landscapes.\
\
The months of October to March are the most recommended for tourists
planning a vacation in Coorg. It is a great time for adventure
activities like Camping, trekking, etc as well as for the sightseeing in
Coorg
