History-

Kalibangn is a town in Rajasthan, India, located on the left or southern
bank of the Ghaggar (Ghaggar-Hakra River)\[1\]\[2\] in Tehsil Pilibangn,
between Suratgarh and Hanumangarh in Hanumangarh District. Bikaner is
205 kilometres away. It is also known for being located in a triangle of
land at the confluence of the Drishadvati and Sarasvati rivers. \[3\]
Luigi Tessitori discovered the prehistoric and pre-Mauryan character of
the Indus Valley Civilization at this location. The Archaeological
Survey of India published Kalibangan's excavation report in its entirety
in 2003, 34 years after the excavations were completed. According to the
research, Kalibangan was a key provincial capital of the Indus Valley
Civilization. Kalibangan is notable for its one-of-a-kind fire altars
and the "world's earliest known ploughed field." Around 2900 BC, the
Kalibangan region developed into what might be termed a planned
metropolis.

### **How To Reach**

Kalibangan is at a distance of 661 km from Delhi, the national capital
and the nearest railway station is at Bikaner, 205 km away.

Tourist Attractions-

Tourists were well rewarded when Dr. A. Ghosh of the Archaeological
Survey of India discovered this site at Kalibangan on a cold winter day
in February 1962. Eager to prove that the Indus Valley Civilization was
really Indian in nature, Kalibangan was chosen as a prime location, and
frenetic excavation work was carried out in a more technically advanced
manner than at Mohanjodaro and Harappa. Kalibangan was exposed to the
light of day with scientific precision, much like a body excavated for
analysis and interpretation.

Best time to visit-

The best time to visit Bikaner is between the months of October to
March.

Weather-

It has a hot desert climate and during summer temperature can exceed
48Â°C.
