Introduction

Kurseong is a hill station (as well as a sub-divisional town) in West
Bengal's Darjeeling District. Kurseong, at an elevation of 1458 metres
(4864 feet), is only 30 kilometres from Darjeeling. It enjoys a lovely
environment all year, and the winters are not as harsh as those in
Darjeeling. Kurseong is known locally as "Kharsang," which means "Land
of White Orchids" in Lepcha. Kurseong is around 47 kilometres from
Siliguri and is accessible by road and the Darjeeling Himalayan Railway.
Bagdogra is the nearest airport. The nearest major train station to the
Land of the White Orchids is New Jalpaiguri (NJP), which is about 53
kilometres from Kurseong. The town's economy is built on education and
tourism. The months of March and May, as well as the months of August
and October, are ideal for visiting Kurseong. In 1835, the Chogyal
(Monarch) of Sikkin Kurseong surrendered to the British Empire. Later in
1880, the colonial government turned this small hamlet into a tourist
destination, and it became a popular location for sanatoriums where the
ill could rehabilitate.

How to reach

By Air The nearest airport to Kurseong is Bagdogra. There are direct
flight connections with Delhi, Kolkata, Howrah, Guwahati and other major
cities of India Th a number of transport facilities available from
Bagdogra to reach Kurseong.

By Train. The nearest railway stations are Siliguri and New Jalpaiguri
from Kurseong. These railway stations have direct railway connections
with Kolkata Howra Guwahati and other major cities of India.

By Road: The main entry points to Kurseong are Siliguri and New
Jalpaiguri. There are various modes of transport available to reach
Kurseong.

ATTRACTIONS & ACTIVITIES

Salamander lake-

Kurseong is 14 kilometres away from Salamander Lake. It was once a
popular boating spot for the British, and residents from nearby towns
frequented the area. It's a lovely green-tinged lake that's home to some
of the world's rarest and most endangered salamanders, a species that's
on the verge of extinction.

Dow Hill

A steep road leads uphill from the main market to the Dow Hill area. The
original Hill Cart Road between Kurseong and Darjeeling can be found
here. This route was called the "Old Cart Road" after a new version of
the Hill cart road was introduced. To get to the Dowhill nature park
region from Kurseong, you only have to climb about a kilometre.

Trekking

Kurseong is ideal for adventurers, as it offers a variety of treks and
climbs, including tea garden tours, hikes through beautiful green
Cryptomaria Japonica forests, and town walks. HOT AIR BALLOONING & ROCK
CLIMBING are two new adventure sports that have recently been brought to
Kurseong. These sports will make Kurseong famous in the near future. As
a result, Kurseong is an ideal tourism destination for nature,
adventure, and culture, and has been dubbed "the new century
destination."

Land of the White Orchids

"Kurseong" is the name in the local Lepcha language."Kharsang," or "Land
of the White Orchids," is a Tibetan word that means "Land of the White
Orchids." Kurseong was given to the British Government by the then
Chogyal (Monarch) of Sikkim in 1835, and it became a popular tourist
resort for the colonial rulers of India in 1880.

Dowhill Park

Since you mentioned Deer Park, it was previously called as that.There
were a lot of deer in this area. However, due to deforestation, such
sights are becoming increasingly rare, hence the name change.There is a
vast enclosed area in the nearby woodland.There are still several deer
in this area. But It is not permitted to enter the forest; instead, you
must see the deer from outside the fence, where they may frequently be
seen wandering about, but not within the park.Dow Hill Park may be found
at the summit of Dow Hill. The enclosed park is fairly small in size.
There are a variety of plantations, including hedges and various types
of trees. In the park, there is a gazebo where you may sit and rest.

Timing

The best months to visit Kurseong are March to June and September to
December. Monsoons are harsh, with torrential rainfall, and should be
avoided at all costs. Kurseong's average temperature is between 10 and
25 degrees Celsius.
