Various names have been given to Leh (Ladakh) in the past. Some called
it Maryul, or low land, while others called it Kha- chumpa. It was
called Kia-Chha by Fa-Hein and Ma-Lo-Pho by Hiuen Tsang. The Brokpas
from Dadarstan, who inhabited the lower regions of the Indus Valley,
colloquially known as Sham, are claimed to have been the earliest
immigrants to this land. The Mons, an Aryan type who initially
established in Gya and spread to Rong, Shayok, Sakti Tangtse, and
Durbuk, the territory spanning from Martselang to Khaltsi, were another
wave of immigrants from Karja (Kulu).

The Kargil War,in Ladakh, also known as the Kargil conflict, was an
armed battle between India and Pakistan that took place in Jammu and
Kashmir's Kargil area and elsewhere along the Line of Control from May
to July 1999. (LoC). The battle is also known in India as Operation
Vijay because it was the name of the Indian military operation that
cleared out the Kargil area. During the war, the Indian Air Force worked
alongside Indian Army ground troops to clear Pakistan Army regular and
irregular troops from vacated Indian positions along the Line of
Control. Operation Safed Sagar was the codename for this particular
mission.

Historical places to visit-

1.  Sculpture at Drass.

2.  Rock Cut Sculpture at Mulbekh.

3.  Lamayuru Monastery

4.  Likir Monastery

5.  Alchi Monastery

6.  Phyang Monastery

7.  Hemis Monastery

8.  Leh Palace

9.  Old Castle Tsemo Hill

10. Stupa at T- Suru

11. Shey Palace

Transport-

The Zoji-La Pass and Kargil route from Srinagar District in Kashmir
Valley and the high-altitude Manali-Leh Highway from Himachal Pradesh
are the two routes into the area from the outside. The Manali-Leh road
is only available from May or June until October or November, when
numerous passes have been cleared of snow. The Srinagar-Leh route is
open from April or May to November or December\[1\], with the exception
of Zoji La Pass, which is frequently blocked by snow throughout the
winter.

Indigo, Vistara, GoFirst, and Air India offer year-round flights from
Delhi to Kushok Bakula Rimpochee Airport in Leh. Jammu and Srinagar are
also served by Air India on a weekly basis.

Except for the road to Zangskar, all roads in Ladakh are open all year.
The Khardong-La Pass, which connects Nubra and Khardong-La, may be
closed by snow for several days in winter and spring. Chang-La pass to
Pangong Lake rarely closes.

From the towns of Leh and Kargil, buses cover the entire region. In Leh
and Kargil, as well as in block heads such as Tangtse, Diskit, and
Khalsa, taxis are available. Early in the morning, shared taxis depart
Leh for Nubra, Kargil, Srinagar, and Zanskar.

Udhampur, the nearest railhead, is connected to all of India's main
cities and towns.

Weather-

The Best time to visit Ladakh is during the summer season from the month
of April to July during this time temperature is between 15 to 30 Degree
Celsius. Ladakh is known for its extremely low temperatures almost all
through the year.
