ZIRO

It is a magnificent plateau and the seat of Lower Subansiri District,
located 167 kilometres from Itanagar. It is one of Arunachal Pradesh's
oldest towns. This lovely hill station is situated at a height of 1500
metres above sea level. The environment is impressive, with lush green
forest, rivulets, and high spots. It is well-known for its
paddy-cum-pisciculture farming. The region is known for its terrace
paddy fields, where the locals use a unique polyculture and water
management method.

The town, which is primarily inhabited by the Apatani tribe, takes on a
joyful appearance during the Apatani people's festivals.

Ziro is also an Advance Landing Ground (ALG) of Indian Air Force.

Major Attractions

The environment is impressive, with lush green forest, rivulets, and
high spots. It is well-known for its paddy-cum-pisciculture farming.

Shiva Lingam at Kardo forest

Home to a 25ft tall and 22ft wide shiva lingam, one of the largest shiva
lingam unearthed.

Talley Valley

It is a wildlife sanctuary as well as a biodiversity hotspot offering
great trekking opportunities.

How to Reach

Via Air-

Zero Airport or Ziro Airport is located at Ziro in the state of
Arunachal Pradesh, India.

Via Rail-

The railway stations from Ziro are at Naharalagun (100 kms) and North
Lakhimpur (117 kms).

Via Road-

Ziro is well connected by road to major cities in India

Mechuka

Mechuka is a small village in Arunachal Pradesh's West Siang District,
lying about 6,000 feet above sea level in the Mechuka Valley. This
beautiful valley is just 29 kilometres from the Indo-Tibet border and
500 kilometres from Itanagar, the state capital. It is one of the most
beautiful places in the state. Mechuka is about 180 kilometres from the
nearest significant town, Along, which is a major tourist destination.
This Arunachal Pradesh location is well-known for its religious and
historical significance.

Menchuka is another name for Mechuka, which is made up of three terms in
the local language: "Men" means "medicinal," "Chu" means "water," and
"Kha" means "ice." The melted snow from the snow-capped mountain is said
to have medicinal properties.

The location is a piece of heaven on earth, with unspoiled natural
beauty. This place is progressively becoming a prominent tourist
destination in Arunachal Pradesh due to its fascinating sceneries,
diverse tribes, natural beautiful lake, snow-capped mountains, and Siyom
River or Yargyap Chu (local name). The Siyom River, which runs through
Mechuka, provides a breathtaking perspective of the valley. The Memba,
Ramo, Bokar, and Libo tribes are the predominant inhabitants of the
Mechuka Valley.

Nearby Attarctions

Bap Teng Kar Water

The Bap Teng Kang Waterfall is 80 kilometres from Tawang. This
100-foot-high waterfall is one of Tawang's most popular tourist
attractions. The waterfall, set amidst lush greenery, is a wonderful
sight for nature enthusiasts. The peacefulness of Bap Teng Kang, often
known as the BTK waterfall, lifts your spirits. The crystal blue water
tempts you to take a bath or go swimming.

Hot water Spring

The Hot Water Spring flows from adjacent hills and into River Dirang,
where it is known for its medicinal properties. The Hot Water Spring
attracts a large number of visitors. When you visit this location in the
winter, the bath is especially invigorating.

YAK RESEARCH CENTRE

The Eastern Himalayan hills are home to the National Research Centre for
Yaks. The Indian Council of Agricultural Research established the
institution in order to conserve and raise Indian Yaks. It is here where
genetic resources and challenges linked with yak production are studied.

Tourists are welcome to visit the research centre with authorization.

THEMBANG VILLAGE

Thembang Village is a fortified village that dates back to the 12th
century. It is a UNESCO World Heritage Site nominee, and the community
is noted for its environmental stewardship. Thembang Village, which is
part of the Thembang Dzong (Fort), is situated at a height of 2300
metres. The Dzong and its gates were built in the Monpa people's
tradition, which incorporates composite stone masonry and wood
architecture. Carved stone blocks, mani walls (stone walls with prayers
engraved on them), traditional wood carvings, paintings and manuscripts,
etched as murals and graffiti around the dwellings and old ruins are
among the ornamental elements. The breathtaking grandeur of lush green
hills, steep gorges, and snow-capped peaks surrounds it.The area
surrounding Thembang is rich in biodiversity and home to a diverse range
of wild creatures, including rare species like the Red Panda, Snow
Leopard, Blue Sheep, Musk Deer, Himalayan Black Bear, and Blood
Pheasant, Monal, Tragopan, and others. Thembang residents value natural
diversity and have incorporated portions of it into their
socio-religious traditions.

How to Reach

Via air

Lilabari, or Mohanbari (Dibrugarh) in Assam, and Guwahati International
Airport are the closest airports to Mechuka. The UDAAN plan also
provides a twice-weekly helicopter service to Mechuka (Saturday and
Monday). Flying from New Delhi to Mechuka and then driving the rest of
the way is one of the fastest and finest methods to get there. There is
a flight from New Delhi to Dibrugarh that takes about 2 hours and 12
minutes.

Via Rail

Mechuka is 180 kilometres from Aalo, another popular tourist location in
Arunachal Pradesh. The nearest rail station is in Silapathar, 390
kilometres away, or in Naharlagun, Arunachal Pradesh. If you're coming
from New Delhi, a train runs twice a week from Anand Vihar Train Station
to Naharlagun, taking about 38 hours.After arriving in Naharlagun, you
can go by road to Mechuka, which takes around 7 hours and 45 minutes.

Via Road

The West Siang District and Aalo, the district headquarters, are the
main entry points to Mechuka, which is also connected to AP's capital
city Itanagar. Aalo may be reached via private sumo cab, bus, or private
automobile hire. While there are two routes to Aalo from Itanagar, one
through Pasighat and the other through Silapathar, it is recommended
that you use the Pasighat route. The road distance from Guwahati to Aalo
is around 817 kilometres, and bus services are available from both
Guwahati and Itanagar. It is more convenient to book a Sumo Cab from
Aalo to Mechuka.
